[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Dr. Gerald Cohen
has been on a lifelong quest
to find the most leading edge
modalities for assisting in the
healing process of his clients.
He's recently
discovered what he feels
is a breakthrough technology
for the world of science
and healing.
It's called intranasal
light therapy.
As the name might suggest, this
involves putting a red light
into the nasal passage,
which then travels
throughout the bloodstream.
The results have
been remarkable.
And we have Gerald
with us here today.
Welcome, Gerald.
>>GERALD COHEN:
Thanks for happening.
>>REGINA: I'm so
excited about this.
I love it when there's
technology that, A, works, B,
is simple, is fundamental on
some level, and even affordable
for people.
I mean, that's not supposed
to sound like an infomercial.
It's just that it appears
something really interesting
has happened here.
Before we get into
this particular device,
I would like to have
a larger conversation
about the subject of light and
its impact on the human body,
mind, emotions, and
even spirit going back
into historical times.
And then we'll take the
story forward from there.
>>COHEN: What a
lot of people don't
realize is that the energy
portion of our cells,
the mitochondria, have receptor
sites for photoreceptors
for light and that it's exactly
the same ones that plants have.
So we're designed for light.
And it's been known
since ancient times
that a lot of people
would go into a depression
if they didn't have
enough sunlight
or if they were living in
darkness and for a prolonged
period of time.
And it would affect not only
their emotions, their ability
to handle stress, but
also their vibrancy.
And so we are light beings.
And from a spiritual
standpoint, light
has to descend in order
for us to become human.
>>REGINA: And when you
say descend, are you
speaking of it cosmologically?
Or how are you speaking of it?
>>COHEN: From the
spiritual realm--
>>REGINA: Yes, OK.
>>COHEN: --that
light comes down.
In the last segment, we
talked about, in the Kabbalah,
that the light has to
descend and become into form.
If the light comes down
too fast, it shatters.
If it comes down too slow,
it becomes too concretized.
And we become too fixed.
So also, in living
in this planet,
we're light dependent just
like every other living thing.
And when we're
deprived of light,
it has profound effects on us.
>>REGINA: And of course, ancient
civilizations, ancient healers,
always understood the
impact of the sun,
the absolute
necessity of the sun--
>>COHEN: Right.
>>REGINA: --for keeping
a person intact and whole
on every level, cellular
through spiritually.
>>COHEN: And right now,
our genetic expression
is controlled much by light.
It's being studied at
Stanford and other places.
It's called optogenetics.
The impact of
controlling genes that's
being studied by inducing
certain light inside the cells
is being experimented
now with animals.
And so it's becoming
better known and much more
available than it was before.
>>REGINA: And I think
most people get this.
I mean, certainly you get it.
You're out.
You have a little walk in
the sunshine in the morning.
Something feels more
vibrant, and you feel better.
>>COHEN: Right.
>>REGINA: But the reality
is that a huge percentage
of the population
in the modern world
spends little to no time
in sunlight anymore.
And not only that, we've
been made to fear sunlight
through the medical industry.
>>COHEN: Correct.
>>REGINA: That, to me--
I have a bug about that.
>>COHEN: Well, you should
have a bug about that--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: --that we're
light dependent.
In Israel, in the
Dead Sea, people
go to get treatment for all
kinds of skin conditions
and health conditions.
There's different
medical clinics and spas.
They actually control
individually how much sunlight
you should get to
recalibrate those pathways,
those biochemical pathways.
And a lot of the
chronic diseases
improve by their program.
There's a lot of really
excellent science behind that.
>>REGINA: Well, I
mean, the Romans
had their share
of knowledge that
had been passed down from the
Greeks, from the Egyptians
and so forth.
>>COHEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: And the solariums
were famous in ancient times
for healing the
returning soldiers who
were depleted or
seriously wounded
and healing others as well.
And if you go further back
into more esoteric doctrines
and memories and
such, healing chambers
that were oriented toward
light coming through
at the times of the
day through apertures
in these beautiful
rooms and so forth--
>>COHEN: Correct.
>>REGINA: --was one of probably
the first lines of attack
if there was any
kind of imbalance.
They went to light, right?
>>COHEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And then
sometimes they
would throw color in with that,
tint the light through colors
and thus was born, more or
less, the idea of color therapy.
>>COHEN: There's many effective
therapeutic modalities
for many different things
based on these color therapy
with lights.
And a lot of it has been
studied and computerized.
And it's extremely effective for
a lot of the chronic diseases.
But the intranasal light
therapy is very different.
>>REGINA: Yeah, OK.
Let's get to the
story of the Russians.
I mean, there's a progression
of how this came to be.
Can you talk about
the progression?
>>COHEN: Well, the
Russians discovered
that a certain red light
frequency, when it was induced
into the bloodstream, would have
profound effects on people that
were chronically ill or had
autoimmune disease or cancers
or other chronic diseases.
And they found a system that
would inject the light directly
into the bloodstream.
So it was invasive.
So you'd have to go
to a medical office.
The equipment was
extremely expensive.
And the treatments used
to-- what I remember,
it was between $160,
$240 per treatment.
And you'd have to go every day.
>>REGINA: What did they do?
I mean, did they
literally intravenously?
>>COHEN: Through a needle, yeah.
>>REGINA: So they put
light in through--
>>COHEN: That was the only way
you can get it into the blood.
All light therapy is not
directly into the blood.
It has to go through the
lungs and go through the skin.
And it has to be
distributed around the body.
What the Russians discovered--
that if you get it directly
in the blood, your
oxygen component
increases as much as
40%, 45% of the time.
The World Health
Organization said
that the number one nutrient
deficiency in the world
today, over 50% of the
world's population,
is suffering from
oxygen deprivation.
>>REGINA: Well, and I think
what we have lost sight of
is that that is our
primary nutrient
above and beyond
any other nutrient.
>>COHEN: That is life.
>>REGINA: That is
life, oxygen. And we're
now on essentially an
oxygen deprived environment.
I mean, we can look
to a lot of that
has to do with
environmental factors,
certainly, the wholesale
clearing of major forests
that were the lungs
of the planet.
>>COHEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: South America, the
whole save the rain forest
thing, people think, I've seen
that bumper sticker forever.
I'm tired of hearing it.
No.
>>COHEN: We're suffering from
oxygen deprivation today.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And that is at the
bottom of essentially
all chronic illness, isn't it?
>>COHEN: It's a big
component, yeah.
And so what today
with everything
going on, with all the poisons,
with all the pollutants,
with all the solvents,
with all the chemicals,
I mean, every one
of those things
deprives our body of oxygen.
And in the planet itself,
it's being deprived of oxygen.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COHEN: We have dead
zones in the oceans.
We have dead zones
now in our body.
Our body is not designed
to have necrotic tissue.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: Our body is
designed for healthy tissues,
for controlled death
and rejuvenation.
And we're seeing
populations of people
that are sicker and
tireder and fatigued
and not having lives that
are expressing who they are.
>>REGINA: True.
I mean, I notice this a lot.
I spend a lot of time in
airports flying in and out
a couple of times a week.
And I'm noticing that
the queue of wheelchairs
on each ramp to each
flight is getting
longer and longer and longer.
>>COHEN: Exactly, right.
>>REGINA: It used to
be you'd have none.
Maybe one or two people
would be in a wheelchair.
Now, there's a
fleet of wheelchairs
waiting for people
to get off the plane
and then ushering
them on as well.
I mean, my thought
initially was, well,
maybe more elderly are flying.
That could be.
But there have
always been people
of all age groups flying.
>>COHEN: Well, the
statistics from there at MIT
is that there's been an
epidemic of chronic disease
and disability.
And it's increasing
year by year.
And that's because
people are not
getting the right nutrients.
They're under stress.
They're not breathing correctly
when you're under stress.
They're not getting
enough oxygen.
And that's causing the
body to break down.
>>REGINA: And it's hard.
I mean, when people
hear that, they think,
oh, well, maybe I could go get
some more aerobic exercise.
Well, the reality
is, I mean, there
is a component of that to
start working the lungs.
But on the other hand, if you're
talking about an essentially
oxygen deprived
environment, you can
go suck all the air you want.
You're not going to get
more oxygen, per se.
>>COHEN: Or you can
get a little bit--
>>REGINA: A little bit.
>>COHEN: --from exercise.
>>REGINA: But, I
mean, that's not
going to take care
of the real issue.
>>COHEN: Yeah, it has
to go through the lungs.
And it has to be
absorbed by the tissues.
The key thing that
we found, it has
to go directly into the blood.
Now, it's not feasible,
at least in my practice--
I don't get a lot of
people that could afford
to go to a hospital setting
and spend a part of their day
having a needle
put into their body
and having red light
flow through their blood,
which will increase the
oxygenation of their tissues.
They can't afford it.
So what--
>>REGINA: Well, that
goes to Dr. Lim,
and the Chinese
involvement in this.
Let's talk about that.
>>COHEN: Well, Dr.
Lim was curious.
How does that red light work?
He read the Russian research.
He saw the profound changes.
But why the red light?
I knew from studying of Kabbalah
that the physical universe is
made from a red light spectrum.
So that's the
mystical component.
But from the scientific
component, why the red light?
So he spent 15 years
reverse engineering
why the red light works.
And he found certain
frequencies had
profound effects on the body.
The next problem is
the delivery system.
There are only two
places in the body
where you can deliver
directly into the blood
without a needle.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: And that's under the
tongue and inside the nose.
So what Dr. Lim
designed and engineered
was a small machine, very
tiny, no bells and whistles.
What he said was the frequency
is the most important thing,
not the components that
give the frequency, not
the actual machine.
You don't need a large
gigantic machine.
You just need the frequency.
The more complex the
machine is, the more likely
it's going to break down.
>>REGINA: Right,
that makes sense.
Sure.
>>COHEN: So we don't have
any digital displays.
And what I've been doing,
I've had at least 50 people
on this already.
And I'm seeing people's
neurodegenerative diseases
reverse.
We're seeing people
have much more vibrancy.
We're seeing skin conditions.
We're seeing disability
people going back to work.
Because you need this every day.
Now, if you do do
it every day, it
fills up those photoreceptors
on the mitochondria.
And that releases more
energy called ATP.
>>REGINA: So essentially,
you're going back
to this is the prime nutrient.
>>COHEN: It's the
prime nutrient.
>>REGINA: Now, I want to
ask you something before we
go further into the healing
effects and the technology
itself.
As I'm listening to this, I,
years ago, spend a lot of time
studying color therapy.
Now, when you're saying they're
using the red frequencies,
now let's differentiate
this light filler frequency
from what would be considered
a light generated color therapy
using the color of red.
Because the body,
in different parts
and different
organs of the body,
each require
different frequencies.
So there you'd be using the
whole spectrum of color.
But that's not
what you're saying.
>>COHEN: No.
>>REGINA: This is different.
>>COHEN: This is a
precise frequency.
There's actually three
that we're working with.
>>REGINA: But they also cover
a broad array of conditions
even though they're
all red, essentially.
>>COHEN: They're all red.
If you work with
a blue frequency,
that's actually very
effective with skin diseases.
>>REGINA: Right, I remember
that from color therapy.
But these aren't blue.
>>COHEN: No, this is red.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: This is a 633.
This is a 655 and
a 810 frequencies.
And they're all working
with the 10 Hertz.
So with the 10 Hertz
with those frequencies,
they affect the body
in different ways.
Most people need the most
simple kind, which is the LED.
>>REGINA: And that's at
what frequency again?
>>COHEN: 633.
>>REGINA: And what does
that assist in the body?
How does that--
>>COHEN: Well, first of all,
one of the problems people have
when they're not getting enough
oxygen is that your red blood
cells produced in the spleen
tend to aggregate stick
together literally--
>>REGINA: Actually--
>>COHEN: --in clumps.
>>REGINA: --we have
some video of that.
And I think it's
from Dr. Lim's--
>>COHEN: That's Dr. Lim's video.
That's correct.
>>REGINA: --Dr. Lim's video.
So in a little bit here,
we'll show some of it.
>>COHEN: Great.
>>REGINA: We'll queue it up
and show some of the video,
so we can see.
And it'll stay on it, as you're
talking, befores and afters
and show the stickiness and
clumpiness of the cells.
And then you can see they
start breaking away and flowing
more freely.
So we can take a look
at that in a bit.
>>COHEN: And so when
they break away,
the receptor sites
can carry more oxygen.
And what we've found in testing,
that the oxygen actually
goes up 40% to 45%.
>>REGINA: That is
really truly shocking.
>>COHEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: And now,
that's on average,
or that is the high
end of the spectrum?
>>COHEN: That's on average.
>>REGINA: On average-- 45%.
>>COHEN: 40%, 45%.
The question, which is
going to be research,
is how long people retain it.
So when doing the red light
therapy, the only problem,
the only negative-- there's
no dangerous side effects--
is doing it too much.
Once you have your
receptor sites filled,
it's like having what
I use in teaching.
It's like you can't put
another car in the garage
when all the parking
spaces are full.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: Once the
receptor sites are full,
there's no reason to
keep bombarding it.
So the safe zone is
around 30 minutes.
So our device shuts off
automatically at 25 minutes,
so there's no danger.
>>REGINA: And when you say
our, how does that work?
You and Dr. Lim began
working together on this?
>>COHEN: No, Dr. Lim
did the research.
What I'm doing is the clinical.
>>REGINA: He did the research.
You're doing the
clinical portion.
So you're working as a team now.
>>COHEN: Exactly.
And so he's doing the
scientific engineering.
>>REGINA: Now, when I looked
around online on this,
I saw there were other
kind of nasal lights
that were out there.
Are they all
qualitatively the same?
>>COHEN: No.
>>REGINA: OK, so what's
the difference in them?
Because people will
start looking for these.
>>COHEN: There's different
companies doing it,
but they don't have
the right frequency.
And they don't have the
right delivery thing.
The very difficult thing
is to get the component
in through the nose
that's small enough
that it's not going to
damage the membranes
and still deliver the light.
>>REGINA: Well, you
have one with you.
>>COHEN: Right.
>>REGINA: There it is.
I see it.
OK, let's see what this is
and how this thing works.
>>COHEN: OK.
So all you have to do, instead
of going every day to get a big
needle put into your arm--
if you're sick enough,
you'll do that--
is you can buy one for
about the same cost
it was to do one treatment.
And then you own it.
And then you can
do it every day.
The only thing you have to
do is change the battery.
>>REGINA: But now you're
saying that before when
these were being utilized, they
were in hospitals or whatnot?
>>COHEN: Hospitals
and medical offices,
you need a nurse or a doctor,
because it was invasive.
>>REGINA: And they
were large units?
>>COHEN: They were
large units, yeah--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: --to get
the same frequency.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now, you have it down
to the size of a pager.
>>COHEN: Yeah.
And then you just--
>>REGINA: Well, here we go.
Here's the live demo.
You have it clicked
onto your nostril.
>>COHEN: And here it is.
You turn on the Start button.
>>REGINA: Go.
And now, we can see-- if
you turn around toward me
a little bit-- yeah, you
can see the red light.
>>COHEN: And the red light is
going directly into the blood.
>>REGINA: Now, I can see it.
Our camera's not
close up enough.
You can see the red
light coming out
of the bottom of the nostril.
But I can also see
it through the skin.
>>COHEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: If the
room were darkened,
you'd see that you
look like Rudolph.
>>COHEN: Right.
So you can just stick it--
it clips into your pocket--
and go about your business.
And it'll shut
off automatically.
You can get a
little more benefit
by doing it twice a day,
but most of the benefit,
probably 96% of
the benefit, will
be from doing it once a day.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now, as attractive
as it is, thank you
for the demonstration.
>>COHEN: And then you can turn
it off, or it just shuts off.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: It's very simple.
Excellent, thank you
for sharing that.
>>COHEN: I do it at
least once a day.
Sometimes I do twice a day.
>>REGINA: So what have
you noticed personally?
And then I want to talk
about some of the cases
that you've been involved
with and where it's best use,
where it's not, the different
frequencies and so forth.
>>COHEN: You know, at my age,
I'm going the same as I always
have or probably even more so.
So I have 14, 15 hour days.
When I'm not treating patients--
and I'm treating patients all
day--
I'm studying and
going to conferences
and working with scientists--
>>REGINA: Giving workshops.
>>COHEN: --giving workshops.
And so I can't afford
not to have energy.
You know, I can't
afford not to be sick.
>>REGINA: So is
that the basic one?
>>COHEN: That's the laser one.
>>REGINA: So that's
the number two one.
OK.
>>COHEN: OK.
And there's the LED one.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: The LED, for most
people-- it's more diffuse--
is the right one.
So that one is the cheapest.
And that goes retail for $299.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: The laser one is more
for the central nervous system.
That will affect things
like Parkinson's disease.
That will affect the
substantia nigra.
It's a more precise frequency.
So anybody that
has insomnia or any
of those central
nervous components,
they would benefit maybe
anecdotally from the laser.
The third one is the infrared,
which is an 810 frequency.
It's also an LED frequency.
It's not a laser.
So it's diffuse.
That one will penetrate the
brain for brain lesions,
go deep into the brain.
So for almost everybody that's
listening to this, probably
the LED would be sufficient.
>>REGINA: Just the
basic one, and so it's
going to oxygenate the cells.
>>COHEN: Also, the
brain, because--
>>REGINA: And the brain, OK.
>>COHEN: It recalibrates
the ability of the neurons
to rejuvenate and help
with the synapses.
>>REGINA: And let's talk about
what's happening normally.
As we kind of go into our
habitual kinds of lifestyles
where we're just maybe
not engaged fully in life
or we have oxygen
deprivation and such,
what is happening to our brains?
>>COHEN: Atrophy and fixation--
we talked about it
in the last show.
Unless you're
developing every day,
your brain is going
to lose its capacity
to rejuvenate and
to cope with stress.
And you're seeing that today.
We have an epidemic of
neurodegenerative diseases,
breakdowns--
>>REGINA: Such as?
>>COHEN: Like
Parkinson's disease,
you have a lot of dementia
diseases, the body
just not rejuvenating.
We're not designed to
fall apart as we age.
We're designed to live
a long, healthy life
and be vibrant to a
very ripe old age.
And it's only because of
actions by the human race
that we suffer from
these diseases of aging,
so-called diseases of aging.
>>REGINA: Well, we
take the easy way
out on almost everything
given the opportunity.
We eat foods that
are easy to procure.
>>COHEN: Are they foods?
>>REGINA: Well, not really.
We eat substances that
are easy to procure.
>>COHEN: Right.
>>REGINA: We sit ourselves down
in front of television sets,
where we can be
passively involved.
>>COHEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And all
of this is really
creating a lack
of the development
of new neural synapses
in the brain, right?
>>COHEN: Yes.
And what happens is
I see a lot of people
that are chronically ill.
And they said, I just
don't feel like myself.
I can't think.
My get up and go
is got up and gone.
My relationships, I'm
not making friends.
I'm irritable.
And they're suffering from
lack of oxygen and lack
of nutrients.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>COHEN: And they're starting to
think that that's the new norm.
>>REGINA: And they
think, oh, once you
hit a certain age, once you
hit 40, or 50, or 60, or 70,
that we should see
this steep decline,
this incremental decline.
That's not true.
>>COHEN: And what
really excites me--
I mean, every day I'm excited--
is seeing that that's not true.
Never give up.
Never give up hope
that all we have to do
is work harder to find
individual solutions.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: Sometimes it's harder.
Sometimes we have
to cast a big net
to find out what's
causing these declines,
but we'll find out why.
And now, we have tools
that are affordable.
The idea that we can increase
oxygen in people's bodies
and in their brains at such a
tremendous increase at a price
that's affordable is--
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's amazing.
>>COHEN: And they can own it.
And they don't have to come
to my office or anybody else's
office to do it.
Then we can use the
resources on other things
in changing their diet,
changing their attitude,
teaching them how to
be calm and focused,
and also have them regain that
passion that they had once.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: Because why end your
life feeling that your life is
with somebody else's?
>>REGINA: Which a
lot of people do--
>>COHEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: I mean,
that's the biggest
regret is people
didn't go for it
and do what they wanted to do,
because there were compromises
made one after the other until
it felt like a shell of a life.
And a lot of it does have
to do with a lack of energy.
>>COHEN: And a lot of times
with that lack of energy people
become addictive.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's true.
>>COHEN: Half of my
addictive patients
are suffering from
nutritional deficiencies.
I've had so many people
that were addicts
that stopped being
addicts once we
corrected the hormonal
nutritional deficiencies.
And now, with the oxygen
being able to do the red light
therapy, that's just
going to accelerate
the process of recovery.
>>REGINA: That is
really exciting.
OK, now let's talk about there's
been some neuro testing done
on it.
Can you talk about
some of the tests
that have been done on it?
>>COHEN: There's
been a lot of tests.
The literature,
this is mainstream.
This is not new age technology.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: It's
mainstream, used in--
>>REGINA: It's out there.
>>COHEN: It's out
there for cancer.
It's out there.
I mean, number one
problem with cancer
is hypoxia in the mitochondria.
So this isn't getting the oxygen
directly into the mitochondria.
There are biochemical pathways
called the nitric oxide
peroxynitrite pathway.
That's the same pathway
in the limbic system,
the emotional part of the brain,
that we activate for learning.
So it's just hijacking.
The body hijacks that
biological pathway
that we use for learning to
perpetuate chronic disease.
So you'll see
different components
based on the genetics.
They'll call it chronic
fatigue syndrome.
They'll call it fibromyalgia.
They'll call it multiple
chemical sensitivities.
But the bottom line is it's a
breakdown in the body's ability
to produce energy
from the mitochondria,
that we're starving our bodies.
So we're not having the right
nutrients to produce energy.
So we break our own body
down to produce the energy.
Otherwise, we can't function.
And we're starving from oxygen.
>>REGINA: So it's scavenging.
>>COHEN: Exactly.
Super oxidation is a major
component of those pathways.
And what happens is
that when that happens
is that certain receptor sites
called NMDA receptor sites get
activated.
And we produce
more nitric oxide.
And so those pathways
start to try to compensate,
and we get chronic disease.
And what it'll raise is
a brain neurotransmitter
called glutamate, which
basically causes the body
to heat up.
The brain gets hot.
And so what happens
to the proteins that
are necessary for rejuvenation?
They become denatured
and unusable.
And people--
>>REGINA: No longer
involved in repair?
>>COHEN: Right.
They actually will get
into the bloodstream
and produce specific
tissue antibodies
and start attacking our organs.
So if you have proteins
that don't belong
and they get in the bloodstream,
they will literally attack us.
And we'll get diseases.
And you'll see that
in people's thinking.
You'll see that on MRI scans.
You'll see that SPECT
scans and PET scans.
You'll see actually
the calcification,
because it actually increases
calcium inside the cell as a--
>>REGINA: And the
implications of that?
>>COHEN: The implication is
that people lose their lives.
They become something else.
And they become somebody else.
And they become people
that they don't recognize.
And they blame it on aging,
or they blame it on stress.
Or they blame it on bad luck,
and they usually blame it on--
>>REGINA: Genetics, they
blame it on genetics.
>>COHEN: Genetics is a big one.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: But it's always
something outside them.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: And the healing
has to come from within.
And the first
thing to do is make
sure you have enough nutrients
and enough oxygen to heal.
>>REGINA: Well, now,
also there was a study
that came out by
the World Health
Organization that spoke
to the levels of oxygen
in the atmosphere.
Can you talk about that?
We have just a minute or
so before we take a break.
What was the finding?
>>COHEN: The finding is
that in the atmosphere
that we have more carbon
in the atmosphere.
We're increasing it
to dangerous levels.
And we're having
less and less oxygen
as we cut down the trees.
>>REGINA: So they're
saying this is now
a health threat to the
entire species essentially?
>>COHEN: Yes, not
only our species--
>>REGINA: All living--
>>COHEN: --all millions species.
>>REGINA: All millions,
and that would
have to be the plant
kingdom as well?
>>COHEN: Well, the plant
kingdom works on the opposite.
It takes carbon dioxide.
>>REGINA: Oh, it
takes the carbon in.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>>COHEN: It takes the carbon in.
So actually, if we disappear--
>>REGINA: So it's to
the advantage of--
>>COHEN: If we disappear,
the plant kingdom will--
>>REGINA: Would flourish.
>>COHEN: --would
flourish, exactly.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: And also, the World
Health Organization this year
said that we're entering
the post-antibiotic age.
They will increasingly not work.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, hold that thought.
We're going to take a
little bit of a break.
And then we'll come
right back, and we'll
talk about this
post-antibiotic era.
This is really important.
We'll be right back.
We are back, and
we're going to talk
about the post-antibiotic era,
which now some people would
hear that and say, no, you
can't take our antibiotics away.
How many lives have been
saved with antibiotics?
>>COHEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: But also,
how many lives
are now being compromised by
the overuse of antibiotics?
It's both.
But let's talk about
this whole concept.
>>COHEN: Well, the
misuse of antibiotics--
myself, my life was
saved by antibiotics
when I had a fungal infection
in my toe of all places.
>>REGINA: Yeah, definitely.
>>COHEN: And it started
spreading really rapidly.
And I got the
antibiotics in time.
So I'm not against antibiotics.
>>REGINA: No, no, I've been
saved by them before, too.
And probably most
people listening
have certainly needed
them from time to time.
>>COHEN: Yeah.
So we don't have a bias against
pharmaceutical medicines.
They certainly save
people's lives.
But the problem we're heading
towards, according to the World
Health Organization--
she's a female physician
that is now the head of it--
is that we're entering
the post-antibiotic age.
>>REGINA: So what have our
bodies done with this stuff?
Why is it?
>>COHEN: It's not our bodies.
It's the bacteria, collectively,
are smarter than we are.
>>REGINA: A-ha,
they're adapting.
>>COHEN: They're
adapting so fast.
And what's interesting--
some scientists like Rupert
Sheldrake called it
morphic resonance--
is that they're
learning non-locally.
So as one part of the world,
let's say in the United States,
learns how to adapt
to these drugs,
somehow bacteria in Asia
and other places also adapt.
It's like the information
becomes non-local.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: And it's so expensive
now to develop new antibiotics
that there's really no
funding and no motivation
from the pharmaceutical
industry to try to even keep up,
because it's
changing so rapidly.
And so what we're heading
towards is that people that
were routine conditions,
a scrape on the knee,
strep throat--
>>REGINA: Sure,
strep throat, yeah.
>>COHEN: There won't
be medications.
And so therapies will be more
expensive and less effective.
And so how do you--
>>REGINA: And so the WHO,
World Health Organization,
is saying this is a reality.
We are now approaching that.
>>COHEN: We're already in it.
>>REGINA: We're in it.
And are you finding when
you hear from clients--
you get an array of clients.
Sometimes they come to
you as a last resort.
Are you finding that
there is this resistance
to antibiotics now
that's increasing just
from your own observation?
>>COHEN: Well, we've known
about it since the 1970s.
Stanford predicted
this, physicians.
>>REGINA: But are you seeing it
in the streets more and more?
>>COHEN: Well, people
now are not responding.
They're coming to
me after they didn't
get well from the
antibiotics a lot of times.
And I've had physicians
that were students of mine.
When I've taught
retreats and workshops,
I had a lot of medical
doctors come to them.
And they were
telling me that they
were under pressure by their
patients, like their time,
4 to 6 minutes or 8 minutes.
And they don't have time
to explain that antibiotics
are not effective, because most
of the infections are viral.
And the last thing
you want to do
is take antibiotics when
you have a viral infection.
>>REGINA: But people
don't know anything else.
So they just-- give
me an antibiotic.
I've got to get rid of
this chest infection.
>>COHEN: Right.
And sometimes
people feel better.
And they said, it was
because of the antibiotics.
But all what
happened was the body
recruited its reserve energy
in response to the antibiotics.
And so you get a
burst of energy,
and your symptoms go away.
But the ongoing
chronic infection
that produces the
irritation and inflammation
for chronic disease still is
inside the cells of the body.
It's just not on the surface.
>>REGINA: OK, so how can
your body without antibiotics
mimic or create this burst of
energy you just talked about?
>>COHEN: It's the same thing.
It's one of the
biggest frustrations.
If you want to know one of
my frustrations in practice
is people take
synthetic vitamins
at high doses, macro doses.
Or they take hormone replacement
therapy, and they feel better.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: That's a big--
>>REGINA: And it's hard
for you to argue with that.
I mean, they're feel better.
>>COHEN: No, I argue with that.
I tell them exactly
what's going on,
that your body's designed,
has a regulatory system,
to keep your hormones
at a very low level.
Artificially giving
them out like a nutrient
is a big mistake.
The way I explained it
when I was teaching this
is that a hormone
to a nutrient is
like a bullet to an atomic bomb.
So the whole body is designed,
your whole hypothalamic
pituitary, adrenal, and
if you're female, ovary,
and a man, testes,
axis of communication
is designed to regulate.
So you don't have this
signal at high degrees.
And so the same thing with
a post-antibiotic age.
When you take antibiotics, when
you take synthetic vitamins,
it's incomplete.
Biochemically, it's
going to complete itself.
Where is it going
to complete it?
It's going to take your
own body to complete it.
So it's going to
take your reserve.
It's like having a bank
account and going to Las Vegas
and having the time of your life
and then coming home and having
the account--
>>REGINA: Empty.
>>COHEN: --the account emptied,
and you have to pay the bills.
And that's what happens is
that you need more hormones.
You need more antibiotics.
You need more vitamins to
maintain that energy level.
And then after a
while, you crash,
because your bank
account is depleted.
And your body's
reserves are depleted.
So you can't go by
initial response
of suppression of symptoms.
Symptoms are actually
the way your body
copes with an internal stress.
And what's really
going on when you're
doing that is you're increasing
this chronic inflammatory
process and the irritation
and, eventually, the cell
membrane, which has all the
information and the components.
And that's where
the photoreceptors
plus all the other receptors
are, begins to degrade,
and you get leakage.
And that leakage, once
it gets into the blood,
will produce antibodies.
And those antibodies will
start attacking the organs
by hijacking our own
regulatory system which
is designed to keep a kidney
cell from growing in your heart
or a liver cell
growing in your brain.
It hijacks the same system.
And what it does is it
starts attacking the tissues.
And when you attack the
tissues, you get necrosis.
So the key is to neutralize that
before it gets to the tissue.
And that's the major
problem in chronic disease.
So taking synthetic
vitamins, taking antibiotics
when you don't need them,
I'm all for it when--
>>REGINA: Synthetic
hormones, yup.
>>COHEN: I'm all for if it saves
your life and buys your time,
but I'm not for it as a way of--
>>REGINA: As a way of life.
>>COHEN: --as a lifestyle.
>>REGINA: So you know, I
want to just throw this in,
because we talked about
it in the last show.
And you just
touched on it again.
And that's the overconsumption
of synthetic vitamins.
And just to kind of
cut to the chase, so we
can get on to some case
studies with the light,
you were telling me
that there really
is only one that you know of.
There may be others,
but you're not
dealing with them personally--
company that is producing.
And that's standard
process, right?
>>COHEN: Yes.
That's a big part--
>>REGINA: That's a
whole food vitamin.
It's not synthetic and
whole food thrown together.
>>COHEN: No, it's only
made out of foods at levels
that your body's designed if
you were eating those foods.
>>REGINA: Can we buy them?
Can you go online and buy
them from a standard process?
Do you have to go through a
practitioner of some kind?
>>COHEN: They have to go
through a health practitioner.
What we found, I had
people buying them,
because the web sites show up.
Standard process is illegal.
If anybody gets caught
selling them online,
they are banned for life.
And we found a lot of forgeries.
>>REGINA: Oh, so that's
what I was going to ask.
Knockoffs?
>>COHEN: A tremendous
amount, I had one patient
that I didn't track.
I don't have a lot of help.
And he had a amoeba
histolytica chronically
that wasn't responding
to my therapy, which
is a hard one to treat.
It's a parasite he got in
Chile a number of years ago.
And I'm putting them on herbal
therapies from Australia.
And I'm using Standard
Process, and nothing changed.
And then I asked him,
are you actually taking?
And he says, well, yeah.
And I said, I'm buying them
from Amazon from the Standard
Process website.
I said, Standard Process doesn't
have a website on Amazon.
>>REGINA: Oh.
That's good to know,
because people would
have gone their first probably.
>>COHEN: So I said,
I'll spend the money.
I'll send it to consumer labs.
And it wasn't Standard Process.
>>REGINA: It was a
knockoff that was not--
>>COHEN: Basically,
it was nothing.
>>REGINA: Nothing.
OK, so we've all been
warned on that one.
Don't go to Amazon.
Nothing wrong with
Amazon, love Amazon.
But don't go there
for Standard Process,
because it's a fraudulent
site, you're saying.
>>COHEN: Standard Process
is a very difficult--
it took me decades to
really learn how to use it.
It's very complex.
And you have to
know how to use it.
And so you need to go to
somebody that's trained
in how to use Standard Process.
It's not like supplements.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I agree.
>>COHEN: This is recalibrating
biochemical pathways
using nutrients the way we
evolved over millions of years.
>>REGINA: Some of the people I
respect the most in the healing
arts and one practitioner I've
gone to for over 20 years who
is was very, very proficient
in the world of kinesiology,
Standard Process is a mainstay.
But he's very specific in
how it's given to people.
>>COHEN: That's right.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK, so let's just say that.
>>COHEN: Because you're
dealing with micro doses.
>>REGINA: OK.
So we can't just go through a
Standard Process pill at it,
you're saying.
>>COHEN: No.
>>REGINA: OK.
All right, just wanted to
see if that was on the table.
>>COHEN: Though there
is one Standard Process
that I'd say everybody
can benefit [INAUDIBLE]..
>>REGINA: Is it a multi?
>>COHEN: Well, it's
no multi, because they
don't use synthetic.
>>REGINA: Right.
But I mean, in terms of
lots of different foods,
what is the one?
>>COHEN: It's a
basic full nutrition,
which was the first one.
It was designed for
cancer patients.
>>REGINA: What's it called?
>>COHEN: Catalyn.
>>REGINA: Catalyn,
how do you spell that?
>>COHEN: That would be safe.
C-A-T-A-L-Y-N.
>>REGINA: Catalyn, so it's
safe for our consumption.
>>COHEN: That's the foundation.
>>REGINA: OK.
OK, now I want to
get back into--
because the question
I had asked you is you
were talking about you
can throw hormones,
you can throw
antibiotics at things.
You get a burst of energy.
And so you'll start feeling
better, but it's false.
Now, how can we get that
same inspired energy
without going to
these harmful means?
>>COHEN: Well,
the first thing is
to eat a diet that's
consistent with your own DNA.
>>REGINA: So you're talking
blood type stuff, too, here?
>>COHEN: Blood type
is one component.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: I don't
only use blood type.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: Blood
type is a database.
That's all it is.
And it's taking one gene.
It's a very, very
valuable database,
but there's exceptions.
>>REGINA: Right.
I mean, so it's not a
one size fits all thing.
>>COHEN: No, it's very
much individualized.
>>REGINA: So I would
say people need
to listen to our other show,
because you go into this
at great length there.
>>COHEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And I do want
to get back to the light.
So heads up, we have
another show coming out.
And we go into this quite
a bit, into the nutrients
and the other elements of
healing in a natural way.
So that will be coming up.
>>COHEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So let's get
back to the light now.
As you were saying earlier, this
therapy is not anything new.
I mean, this has
been miniaturized
and made affordable to
the average person--
>>COHEN: That's right.
>>REGINA: --and household.
But the fact is there
have been a lot of studies
on this therapy for a long time.
And I want to talk about
some of the studies, some
of the conditions.
I want to talk about what
happens with brain trauma.
So let's talk about
Massachusetts General, Harvard,
some of the major studies,
mainstream studies
on this technology.
>>COHEN: Well, most of the
studies are mainstream.
The world's expert
is out of China who's
written most of the books.
I have his books.
>>REGINA: What's his name?
>>COHEN: I don't remember.
It's a Chinese name.
>>REGINA: OK, can't say it?
>>COHEN: I'm sorry.
>>REGINA: It's OK, go ahead.
>>COHEN: So that's
going out of China.
He's in contact with Lewis in
the development of the process.
He took his original
idea from the Russians
and developed it further.
There's a neurologist out
of Massachusetts General
and Harvard that's researching
neurological conditions.
And we're seeing
profound changes
in people that are chronically
neurologically ill.
In other words, the
brain will respond
when given enough oxygen
and enough nutrients.
And it goes through the
blood brain barrier.
There's no negative.
If it has the right information,
the brain can also rejuvenate.
>>REGINA: OK, that's big.
>>COHEN: Very big.
>>REGINA: Are you talking
about chronic illnesses such
as Parkinson's?
>>COHEN: Parkinson's, and
now for Parkinson's, probably
the best would be
the laser in that--
>>REGINA: The laser,
the mid-range one?
>>COHEN: The
mid-range one, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, so
Parkinson's, what else?
What are some of the other
neurological chronic illnesses
that we're suffering from?
>>COHEN: Well, let me
go back to my practice.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: Typically,
when I'm seeing somebody
that's really chronically ill
and you have to rebuild them,
sometimes you won't see results
for three months, six months.
And the best results
might take a year or two.
For example, in people that
are longtime gluten sensitive.
>>REGINA: It takes a long time.
>>COHEN: To repair the brain
it's about a year to two years.
>>REGINA: Talk about this part.
Because a lot of
people know about
the physiological and
digestive effects of gluten,
but they don't understand
the long-term consequences
to the brain if you're
truly allergic to
or intolerant to gluten.
>>COHEN: It's like ingesting
toxin for your brain.
It will kill-- neuronal
and glial cells,
it will make them hypoxic.
And it'll make them necrotic.
In other words, they're
oxygen deprived.
And they'll die.
And when they die,
they literally explode.
When cells have a normal
death, they're recycled.
They become smaller.
And the components are
used to make energy.
And the rest are used to
rebuild other new cells.
>>REGINA: Trees in
the forest, but what
happens when they explode?
>>COHEN: Then the proteins
will beget allergies,
reactions to foreign proteins.
They're dangerous if they
get into the bloodstream.
They don't belong
in the bloodstream.
The blood should be pure.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: Normally
in a healthy body,
the proteins would be
blocked in our immune system
in the intestines,
which is 60%, 70%, 80%,
90% of our immune system.
So what will happen is that
you'll produce foreign tissue
antibodies.
And so the idea is let's
get the cells enough oxygen.
So what normally would
take me over many years--
I'm doing this
for 30, 40 years--
I'm seeing quicker
recoveries, because I'm
getting enough oxygen. I don't
have to worry about the oxygen
into the cells.
I can deliver it
right into the brain,
into the nervous
system, or the tissues.
Because the blood circulates
around the whole body.
And so that accelerates healing.
We can get quicker results.
And then if you feed
the body correctly,
a lot of these diseases
just happen to go away.
>>REGINA: What
about heart disease?
>>COHEN: Same thing
with heart disease.
>>REGINA: Really?
>>COHEN: Heart disease--
>>REGINA: This is really
clinically impacting heart
disease?
>>COHEN: What muscle--
>>REGINA: That's right.
It needs oxygen. Yeah.
>>COHEN: What muscle has
the most mitochondria?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah, exactly
>>COHEN: Which muscle cells
have the most mitochondria?
The heart.
>>REGINA: And is responsible
for oxygenating the body--
so this is helping
with people who
have had chronic heart disease.
>>COHEN: But you have to also
feed the heart correctly.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: So you have to do
the autoantibody therapy
to neutralize those antibodies.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: And that's specific
nutritional component
to doing that.
You have to get enough
oxygen to the tissues,
so they can
rejuvenate and repair.
You have to get enough
nutrients, particularly
the B vitamins, not the B
vitamins that are synthetic.
The B vitamins that
are synthetic, where
do you think they're made from?
Coal tar.
>>REGINA: Coal tar?
>>COHEN: Coal tar.
Ascorbic acid, which is
only 2% of vitamin C,
is made out of table
sugar and sulfuric acid.
They don't even
look like each other
when you do a spectrograph.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: Szent-Gyorgyi,
who got the Nobel Prize
for finding vitamin C, you
know, in the literature
it said he was so upset when
they called it ascorbic acid.
He said, that was
just like calling
the shell of an egg an egg.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>COHEN: It was the
antioxidant component,
which is 2% of vitamin C. If you
have scurvy, what will happen
is, if you take ascorbic acid,
you'll still have scurvy.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you
need the bioflavinoids.
You need all of the
complex components of it.
>>COHEN: All the
components of it,
there's many, many components,
including tyrosinase enzymes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COHEN: And so a lot of
people call heart disease
the pallagra of the heart.
It's a deficiency of
all the vitamin Bs.
And many of the vitamin
Bs you can't synthesize.
>>REGINA: So you have to get
vitamin Bs mostly from food
sources, natural food sources.
And a lot of that is--
>>COHEN: And that's
what we're designed for.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And a lot of people, I know
it can be an issue with vegans
in particular.
It can be an issue getting
enough vitamin B6 and vitamin
B12 in particular.
>>COHEN: It's a big one.
>>REGINA: It's a big one.
And so they're looking, without
eating any animal proteins,
how do you get the B12s in you?
How do you?
>>COHEN: That's a very
interesting insight.
I have to commend
you on that one,
because the vitamin B12,
certain forms of vitamin B12,
lower nitric oxide.
And when we talked about
when people become hypoxic,
nitric oxide goes up.
And that instigates
a whole pathway
that leads to these
chronic disease,
degeneration diseases that
are exploding as we speak,
literally exploding.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean, I was
a vegetarian for 20 years.
And I was chronically
B12 deficient.
>>COHEN: Right.
>>REGINA: And so what is
the answer without going
into the animal kingdom?
>>COHEN: Well, a healthy
vegan diet, you can get it.
>>REGINA: Can you
get enough of it?
>>COHEN: If you're using
the right chlorophyll,
the green products,
and stuff like that.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: If you're taking what
I use with intranasal therapy--
and this is my own development,
so I'll take credit for it--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: --is using fat
soluble chlorophyll,
which is the blood of a plant.
>>REGINA: Oh, fat
soluble chlorophyll.
What is it called?
Does it have a name yet?
>>COHEN: Fat soluble--
>>REGINA: Besides fat
soluble chlorophyll?
>>COHEN: Yeah, chlorophyll.
We're using it along
with a spleen tissue
antibodies, antigens for
the antibodies, along
with intranasal therapy.
Because the chlorophyll is
the closest to our blood.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COHEN: The only difference is
we have a magnesium molecule,
and 70% of people are
magnesium deficient--
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes, that's a big one.
>>COHEN: --instead
of an iron molecule.
So we're circulating the oxygen
better with the chlorophyll.
And that's what I'm
seeing accelerated here.
>>REGINA: Now, that
makes perfect sense.
>>COHEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So is this
something that's
readily available for people?
I mean, can people buy this?
Or again, do you have
to go to a practitioner?
>>COHEN: You can go through my
website and just say that you--
>>REGINA: You found
someone that's
making this and providing this?
>>COHEN: Standard Process
is the one that makes it.
>>REGINA: Oh,
Standard Process, OK.
>>COHEN: Yeah, it's
an expensive one
that-- they're the
only ones that make it.
They're the only ones
who have the technology.
Remember, Royal Lee
was an engineer.
He engineered the bombing rocks.
>>REGINA: Explain who Royal
Lee is and his relationship
and what Standard Process is
just so people understand.
>>COHEN: Royal Lee was an
engineer and a scientist.
And he made a lot of money in
his engineering on jet engines.
In World War II, he
designed the bombing racks
for the naval saturated
bombing of Germany
and ended World War II.
But his love was nutrition.
And he founded Standard
Process and used the science,
applied it to nutrition
as a way for extending
the life of our species
and extending health
and made specific
formulas using science
to replace what
our bodies weren't
getting as we altered
the environment
and altered our diets.
>>REGINA: So what is it about
Standard Process and the work
that he was doing that
still holds up decades later
where others are falling down?
And who else?
Are there some other
competitors in this market
that we could access?
>>COHEN: He never
shared the technology.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>COHEN: So a lot of the
things that they've done,
they're the only ones doing.
Because I don't want to
go into the political,
but there was a lot
of threats on him.
>>REGINA: Oh, sure.
Like Royal Raymond Rife and
many others who were doing--
>>COHEN: They were
friends of his.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: And in the
Freedom of Information Act,
there were a release
of FBI information
that said everything he said
of what they were doing to him
was true.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: And so I mean,
that's a whole different --
>>REGINA: I think
most of our viewers
understand that it's a
very dangerous business
to offer something that is
genuinely useful and accessible
to the human species
with a no good deed goes
unpunished in that field.
>>COHEN: Well, they wanted
to buy him out and make it
into drugs.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: And make it
prescription only-- that
was their plan.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: And he resisted it.
He never did it for the money.
He made plenty of money on
his engineering company.
And he also had a
research library,
where he had professional
people to translate
scientific articles from
all over the world which
nobody was doing at the time.
Most American science was
based on American science.
They weren't reading
Russian and German.
He was reading it.
And he was a member of the
National Academy of Sciences.
So this was very
advanced science.
And some of the work he's doing,
especially with brain injuries,
which is--
>>REGINA: I was going to
ask you about that, brain
trauma and injuries
with the light
and the chlorophyll and such.
Let's go into it.
>>COHEN: OK.
We have hope for
this, especially
these degenerative diseases
from repetitive traumas.
We're using a particular
nutritional component coming
from Royal Lee's formulas.
We're neutralizing the attacks
on the brain with the antigen
antibody formulas
that literally explode
the antibodies before
they can get to the brain.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>COHEN: So the brain can heal.
And then we're
giving it the oxygen,
so the cells can rejuvenate.
And then we're teaching
people what kind of lifestyle
changes, which we talked
about in the last interview--
>>REGINA: The interviewer
yet to be aired, yes.
>>COHEN: --yet to be aired,
which we talked about it there,
that actually grow synapses.
Certain activities will
grow 150,000 to 200,000.
So you can replace what you're
losing from degeneration
as the brain heals.
And then we're noticing
that people, especially
in the wasting
conditions, they're
starting to put back weight.
Their energy starts
to come back.
And their thinking comes back.
And so you can actually
now heal these type
of injuries and especially
these closed-in head injuries.
>>REGINA: Yes, severe
brain trauma, for example.
>>COHEN: Severe
brain trauma, yeah,
like you're seeing with
the football players.
>>REGINA: Right, repetitive.
>>COHEN: You know, if you
have a series of concussions,
your chances of getting a
neurodegenerative disease
goes way, way up.
>>REGINA: What
percentage of people
would you say from
your practice actually
have undiagnosed brain lesions
and conditions from trauma
where maybe you just fell down
the stairs when you were a kid
or whatever?
I mean, is this pretty common?
>>COHEN: Especially with kids
that are misdiagnosed with
autism--
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>COHEN: --a lot of it is
traumatic brain injury.
I've seen that a lot.
I'm not saying-- we're
in an epidemic of autism,
so I don't want to
be misunderstood.
>>REGINA: No, I understand.
>>COHEN: But autism
comes from a dysfunction
in the mitochondria, from
the mitochondrial DNA
that breaks down.
And it affects
the mirror neurons
in the pre-orbital frontal lobe.
And so the ability to empathize
or to connect, what the mirror
neurons do is that
your brain, as we talk,
is firing the same as mine.
So if I'm doing something,
I'm saying something,
your brain is firing
as if you're firing.
>>REGINA: They
entrain to each other.
>>COHEN: But when that is broken
down, that doesn't happen.
So literally, you have no model.
>>REGINA: So you're saying
some of the cases of autism
are misdiagnosed and are
actually trauma to the brain?
>>COHEN: Yeah.
So right now, I ask everybody,
especially kids' parents.
Did he ever have a brain trauma?
Most of time, they're in denial.
And then somebody in the family
will say, oh, no, don't you
remember when he
fell and smashed
his head against on the
floor when he was one?
>>REGINA: So this actually
affects a fairly large part
of the population.
I mean, a lot of us have
been knocked on the head
here and there.
>>COHEN: All of us have
been at some time or other.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: And that produces
brain tissue autoantibodies.
They are foreign
proteins that don't
belong in our blood that
are drawn to the tissues
that they come from.
And they alter the tissues.
It's as if you're getting
traumatized over and over
again.
>>REGINA: OK.
So if you're looking at it on
this kind of garden variety
level that many, many
people have been through
in their lives,
what does this do
in terms of the speed of our
processing and our intelligence
levels even?
>>COHEN: It alters the--
sometimes it can
accelerate the speed.
That's where you get a
lot of the people who
seem to be hyperactive,
where a lot of the damage
is in the limbic system in the
basal ganglia and the thalamus.
And so you lose impulse control.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: And then that registers
in the hippocampus, which
is very cortisol dependent.
And that's where we make the
decisions of what's important
and what's not important.
Otherwise, everything
becomes important.
>>REGINA: So you're
hyperstimulated.
>>COHEN: You're hyperstimulated.
And you can't inhibit.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: It happens actually--
>>REGINA: So it can
happen either way.
>>COHEN: And the globus
internes gives us our ability
to inhibit the inhibition, which
means that we're constantly
excited.
And you see this
over and over again,
especially in young people.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>COHEN: And what they
do is self-medicate.
They're smoking cigarettes.
They're smoking--
>>REGINA: Or they're
given Ritalin or something
if they're young enough.
But--
>>COHEN: But that's a
different part of the brain.
The Ritalin will
affect the amygdala.
>>REGINA: So we're
talking light.
I mean light.
Let's say you have a
hyperactive child, what's
called a hyperactive child, one
that might be up for drugging.
Is this something that can
help with this as well?
>>COHEN: If you can
keep it in his nose.
>>REGINA: If you can
keep it in it for--
>>COHEN: That's the problem.
>>REGINA: For 25 minutes, keep
it clipped on long enough.
>>COHEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But if you
could, this actually
is beneficial, too, for that.
>>COHEN: Yeah.
It would be
amazingly beneficial.
>>REGINA: Hugely beneficial,
this is fascinating
just the effect on the brain.
>>COHEN: And the nutrition.
>>REGINA: Yes,
and the nutrition,
which we can't get
into in detail.
But again, our other
conversation coming up,
you want to watch that.
>>COHEN: No, but
specific nutrition
for that part of the brain.
>>REGINA: OK, which is?
>>COHEN: Well--
>>REGINA: We can't go into that.
We need hours and hours
to talk about all this.
>>COHEN: Let me just say
that that does exist.
>>REGINA: It does exist, OK.
>>COHEN: We can target
different areas of the brain
with specific nutrients.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about--
you touched on it earlier in the
hypoxia situation with cancer.
What kind of cancers are
responding also to light?
And when I say cancers, we're
talking about rebuilding
the immune system at large.
But what have you noticed?
I mean--
>>COHEN: Well, I've noticed
that people are still alive when
they gave them three months.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: I mean, with the
light therapy and his papers--
Lew just sent me a paper on
cancer saying the same thing
that I've noticed.
I have cancer patients.
I'm not treating
their cancer, but I'm
treating them with nutrition.
>>REGINA: To boost their immune
system and their well-being?
>>COHEN: Well, also to
change the physiology.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: I mean, we're
using a lot of things.
And we have a lot of patients
that have breast cancers that
are being treated at Stanford
with different chemotoxic
agents.
And their immune
system is staying
alive every time they're taking
the nutrition I give them.
And the nurses and
doctors are noticing--
>>REGINA: Are you using the
light with this as well?
>>COHEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
So you're using
light and nutrition.
And so it's staving off the--
>>COHEN: Oxygen is a nutrient.
>>REGINA: --side effects
of chemo, you know.
OK.
>>COHEN: It's not the
side effects of chemo.
What happens with chemo is that
it destroys the immune system,
so you get opportunistic
infections.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>COHEN: And also the
problem with chemo
is that it's going to
create other cancers,
because the cells will alter.
This is not my opinion.
This is in the literature.
>>REGINA: Yes, right.
>>COHEN: Oncologists
talk about it.
That's why they talk about
a five year survival rate.
One of the key things
of why it will alter
is that, with the
cancer, the cancer cells
need eight times the sugar.
And they need way more
oxygen than healthy cells.
>>REGINA: OK.
Well, we can't go into that,
because we're just about
out of time.
>>COHEN: Oh my gosh.
>>REGINA: So we
only have about a--
I know, it flew.
I'm glued to it.
We only have a
minute or so left.
Just any final thoughts?
Anything you'd like to say
that we haven't swept up yet
regarding this light therapy?
>>COHEN: Regarding
the light therapy?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>COHEN: To me, it's
the one major technology
that I endorse.
There are many technologies
that help people.
>>REGINA: You've used a lot.
I know you've used
a lot of them.
>>COHEN: And a lot
of them I explored.
And I'm not a proponent of them.
But what I found is that they
will work for one person.
There's not enough science
to know long-term results.
Like I said, one of the dangers,
if you're inexperienced,
is making judgments
on short-term effects.
>>REGINA: Right.
And we did discuss that.
So this is relatively
safe across the board
is what you're saying?
>>COHEN: This is totally safe.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>COHEN: The only
thing it's not safe
if you think more is better.
>>REGINA: OK.
So if we do decide
to buy into this,
make sure that we do not keep
that up our nose all day.
25 minutes once a day is fine.
>>COHEN: Or twice a day.
>>REGINA: Or twice a day.
Gerald, thank you so much.
>>COHEN: It was a pleasure.
>>REGINA: We should
have another hour.
Well, this has been
music to my ears.
I hope it's given you some
food for thought as well.
You can connect with Gerald's
work by going to his website
at drgcohen, D-R-G
Cohen, dot com.
Meanwhile, you might also
enjoy my previous conversation
with him in the conscious
media network archives.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]